it's real honor for me to be here today
I don't often say that but I really mean
it I like to start off my talk by
mentioning two things one
please don't believe anything I'm going
to tell you the American people are so
inundated by misinformation there's
absolutely no reason you should believe
anything anybody tells you to clear your
evening news of course with everything
everything there is an exception and I
think in my case I have a fairly valid
exception because of the process that I
had to go through to clear my my book I
had to prove that everything I stood
insane is in the public domain
I still go down to the agency about
twice a month and turn in new material
do are you looking care and in doing
that process I have to produce or pull
out from government documents debt
particular information because they
inevitably you say you can't say it is
classified and I will inevitably locate
that information in the public domain so
if you doubt me and I hope you will
there is a way to check up on me go to
library and look in the back of my book
and almost every major conclusion that I
will be talking about here today will be
document to an official government
document I've drawn upon the Pentagon
Papers
are you all familiar with Pentagon
Papers and the the Senate and House
investigation of the agency and a
variety of other material so don't
believe what I say but if you want to
check up on me the information is
available secondly I'd like to say my
message is basically a real downer it is
real negative but I don't want to leave
with that impression because I just
returned from a two-week speaking trip
in Iowa where I was testifying going to
testify at the court case there in Iowa
City for the protesters and in Nebraska
and wherever you go and I've been in
Arizona and the various other places
speaking and wherever you go you find
concerned groups so I am I am encouraged
I know during the Vietnam War for the
first ten years we didn't even know what
was going on
and then 11 or 12 years later people
began to protest but this time in in
Latin America the protest was almost
instantaneous the substructure is there
the only reason we'll get out of Vietnam
of course is because the student
protests so I am very encouraged my
message is negative but I don't want to
leave with an impression it's very I am
very very encouraged I think I should
talk in three basic phases one walk you
very quickly through my career with the
agency up to right now where I am today
and back up and walk you through Vietnam
a little bit or walk you through my
career a little more detail including
Vietnam now I do that not to talk about
Vietnam but because the processes that
are followed today in sets of America in
the Middle East and Africa have all been
used in Vietnam now take out three or
four incidences and show you the
descents that is in they are documented
by the way and show you that these are
sort of a typical what the agency does
around the world since the very
beginning in 47 what it's doing today in
86 then I'll go back and review the
agency's domestic operations and I'll do
that for one purpose because with
everything they were doing up to the mid
70s they are now going again the only
difference now is under President
Reagan's executive order of December 81
they can do these things legally that
they were doing himegami before it's the
only only difference then I would like
to talk sort of bring it all together in
Central America and talk about El
Salvador Grenada and particularly
Nicaragua and
so that's basically the approach I'll
take I went to the University of Notre
Dame I played on four undefeated
football teams three national
championships and then I tried out the
Green Bay Packers and to this day I
can't understand what's the matter of
the coaches up there when I was cut I I
received a cable would you be interested
in an important government position
similar to the State Department and
function my football background was not
yet irrelevant when I went down to
Washington I found that the class before
me my class the press after me who
basically rejects from the National
Football League not the standard concept
of an intelligent officer well I served
in the agency for 25 years the first 15
or 16 years I believed that the CIA was
sort of like a missionary organization
out saving the world for democracy and
religion and gathering good intelligence
to help our policymakers make good
decisions now when I go into work in the
morning I just you know I'd feel a real
pride that I'm part of the great crusade
to stop the International times
conspiracy all that began to change for
me in Vietnam
that's when I began protesting I should
mention that I served my entire 25 years
in the Director of Operations now the
agency is broken down basically for the
directorate's Administration Science and
Technology intelligence and operations
administrators administrate Science and
Technology they devise the sophisticated
collection devices and monitors results
intelligence gathers its the scholars
who sit and read the reports come in
from around the world and have put out
the final reports and the operators
operate the Directorate of operations
has two basic functions covert
operations and gathering intelligence
covertly since our minds my contention
that the agency is little more than a
covert action agency although I will
dwell a little bit on it now covert
action operations and broadest context
can be described as those operations
designed to overthrow or support foreign
governments overthrow operations have
four basic components economic warfare
political warfare psychological warfare
and economic warfare in my 25 years need
see I served overseas in Japan and the
Philippines in Taiwan six years or three
tours in Thailand and two years as the
chief police advisor to the head of the
Vietnamese Special Police that's the
equivalent of our CI our FBI is that as
I said my period of protests began
around the Vietnam War I for the next
period within the agency began
protesting and having no luck with those
protests I find it up the agency in 1977
now in a stroke of real irony at this
particular point because they had
assigned me to Siberia when you escalate
to protest you become persona non grata
in 77 and in a stroke of irony they
awarded me the career intelligence metal
and the honorable service medal of
course I you know I I think I know why
they don't want
they know they had a loose cannon and
they wanted to kind of dampen me down
appease me a little bit and I think that
was a purpose of givin it to me but I
also earlier had won awards to Vietnam
service awards a commendation for the
director for devising a program counter
insurgency and intelligence in a variety
of other CIA in foreign awards well when
I left the agency I testified before the
Senate in house intelligence committees
and before a variety of other Senate and
House committees all related to CIA
activities I immediately said about
writing a book about my experiences it
took me three years to research and
write the book and then like all CIA
officers when you you know when you join
the agency you have to work you have to
sign the secrecy dream and as I said I
must submit everything to the CIA for
pre-publication review I did and they
came back and you said they have
identified approximately 400 security
violations in my manuscript and they
returned it in little bits and pieces of
paper because some of the deletions ran
up to several pages in length well to
defeat this process I went through you
know going through the public record and
pulling out the identical information
and ultimately with this effort I got
everything virtually everything
reinstated there a few little specifics
that I didn't get reinstated but for the
most part they were were all reinstated
I did in a few cases they had deleted
some very boring information I said
rather than rather than fight them over
this why not just leave in this comment
seven words deleted it looks a lot
sexier than my
so I just I didn't fight him on all of
them then I went looking for a publisher
and the long hard process and finally
one publisher said you know you've
written a nice legal brief here you make
your points and then you you have your
citations to your information but Boise
dollars mud who would want to read a
legal brief if we will publish it if
you'll rewrite it as a autobiography
which I did I then resubmitted it to the
CIA for pre-publication review I didn't
put any more secret details in there but
I you know I just just ended my my
personal life at this time William Casey
had become director of the CIA and they
in essence told me we're not going to
let you publish a book and I said well
you you can't stop me everything that's
in the book you have not only cleared
for other people it's not only in the
public record but you also cleared for
me before and the laws that you operate
under say you may not reclassify
information once it's been Declassified
and released in a response in essence
well that's tough we're doing it anyhow
there's nothing you can do about it well
this is a very critical period I just
didn't know what to do right I really
worried about this because if they would
have stopped me was then then I would
not be able to speak to here to you here
to see Denis but everything would have
been classified so I I call The
Washington Post and The Washington Post
were in a long expose of how the CIA was
trying to was violating the law by
reclassifying information that was in
the public domain a violation of the
laws of the land this public exposure
forced the agency to relent and the book
was finally released yeah subsequent to
the release of the book I then traveled
to Cuba by state about a week to Grenada
where I met Maurice Bishop prior to the
coup he was head of a new jewel moment
there and then I went on to Nicaragua
and traveled around the garage
per week particularly up to Halawa near
the board area I understand that
boulders sister city in and I visit I
saw the devastation being visited fun
and Nicaraguans by the CIA that Contras
I went to the hospitals and and talked
to some of the wounded soldiers I talked
to the mothers of whose sons had been
killed and I saw that destroyed
greeneries and bridges and what all I
did is because I wanted to come back and
talk about my experiences and I felt it
would give me greater credibility if I
had actually bidden to those places and
seen for myself currently I'm involved
in what I think is probably the most
informative program I've ever been
involved in I've joined the computer age
I've got an extensive library on the CIA
I doubt if there's a book about the CIA
that I don't have and what I'm doing is
I'm going through all of the books
written by the Procyon officers by anti
CIA officers by the Senate committee by
the House committees the Pentagon Papers
and I'm drawing out from those books
information on CIA techniques and it's
an extremely interesting process because
you could almost see the the procedures
are repeated over and over and over
again these different situations in
different situations overseas different
procedures used in different situations
but the processes are fairly uniform and
they call espionage and covert
operations the world's second oldest
profession and like the world's first
all this profession there ain't much new
the same things happen over and over
again just different settings of
different partnerships I'm pulling out
for example how many times has the CIA
planted a so-called tiniest weapon
shipment made arrangements for its
discovery and then broadcast it through
its massive media organization and then
use that time missed weapons shipment as
a justification for overturning another
government how many times has it forged
the document in the name of a group or
another girl
and use that information in that
document as a means of overturning or
supporting another government and you
can just see these processes over and
over again and I could almost write this
script in advance and sometimes I do and
of course I submit it to the CIA for
pre-publication review and when they
scream real loud I know how accurate you
know my predictions are well that's
pretty much me right up right up to the
moment when I'm not speaking I'm sitting
in front of my computer pulling out this
information I like to back up now and go
through my career just a little bit more
in more detail I uh I took the training
the normal spy training you know
document photography secret writing
radio communications agent
communications dead drops live drops
recruitment surveillance
counter-surveillance
follow various things that one tends to
associate with spying operations and
then I went down to Camp Perry for the
paramilitary training and there we were
giving training in dirty fighting I
called it you know how to kill or mein
with a variety of innocent looking
implements including your hands the
demolitions training the characteristics
and use of TNT makes of glycerin
dynamite c3 and c4 plastique and the
niceties of the various booby trapping
devices such as pressure release push
pull and various detonating type of debt
many cords and fuses the firing of
variety cleaning and maintenance of a
variety of weapons communists in
American the standard military tactics
of small unit movements and survival
scapin evasion in all of those sort of
aid efforts and the the parachute the
and I've never credited myself as being
very Swift and I mean this and I'm very
slow to get to get the picture but one
day when I was floating down under this
canopy
I thought back to the cable that
recruited me and you will be something
you were doing something like the State
Department in function
there wasn't my impression with the
State Department and then I went to
after the training I went to Japan
Philippines Taiwan Taiwan we were
sending agents onto the mainland
mainland of China are trying to send a
just thought the mainland of China and
although I can't say this directly I can
quote appear to solve a former TV
station in Hong Kong said they had
absolutely virtually no successes at all
and I think that was an over estimate of
their operations then in 1957 I was in
Thailand and the early 67 and the chief
of station called me in and he said
Ralph we want you to begin a
counterinsurgency program and an
intelligence gathering program with the
50,000 Manti national police force and I
looked at him in amazement I was very
surprised and you me just me in 50,000
times
police said yes and the Thai police were
basically just patrolmen who had several
years of schooling to the offers that
had a little bit more schooling my god
this is this is a real mission
impossible because I had gone through
college and I've gone through all the
elitist training of the CIA you know I
didn't consider myself a good
intelligence officer how could I
transform these on school patrolmen and
make them into a sophisticated
intelligence gathers in effective
counterinsurgency now at this time the
CIA was reporting in its intelligence
that the communist movement in in
Thailand which had begun basically 22
years earlier it had a longer history
but they announced two years in 65 that
they were going to begin active
insurgency operations in Thailand the
CIA was reporting than in all of
Thailand that there were 2,500 guerillas
and they lived up in the mountainous
areas in the in the mid-south northeast
north of Thailand and there are all
gorillas in his abductor monasteries and
they've come down into the villages and
raid in the villages to force the people
to support them with money food and then
they would kidnap young men and take
them back up into the mountains didn't
incorporate them into the movement and
they have to absolutely no popular
support in the villages and I'm going to
ask your dollars just here for a couple
of minutes because I think if I can
explain to you what happened this was
sort of my day knew my if you will if I
can explain to you what happened in
Thailand then you will see what happens
in Vietnam is very directly related to
what happens didn't Vietnam and what
happens in Vietnam is very directly
related so what the agency is doing
today around the world so if you just
bear with me a couple of minutes on this
and I did I looked on this is my mission
impossible as I said I could not have
anticipated at that time that my world
was going to be turned upside down not
by failing in a seemingly impossible
mission but by achieving unparalleled
success so I looked at the problem there
were 72 provinces in Thailand half of
them had counters tense urgencies how do
you go about doing this I thought well I
can't do it in all provinces at once
what I'll do is narrow the scope of the
effort down to one province in northeast
where the problem was the greatest and
try all efforts there all intelligence
caring methods there and then whatever
works then I can expand their outward to
the entire country and then I narrowed
it down even smaller to a district
within the province and I'm gonna try
all the techniques and we tried all of
the various spy sort of techniques
recruiting agents secret writing and you
know clandestine meetings I don't laugh
and all of these things just failed and
they fail spectacularly we acting on
information
that I'd provided there was a 16
helicopter raid on an empty rice field
rather embarrassing but one effort I
developed had immediate success now I'm
going to compress it a little bit for
you it doesn't all happen in this
sequence but I'm compressing it a little
bit for you to show you what for time
purposes I devised a another program I
ultimately call a district survey now
the district survey what I did is I
gathered all the information that
existed on the Congress movement in that
province through from the national level
down to the district level from the Thai
side and from the American side and I
drew up a situation report on the
district 1 what the chemists were doing
in the district and to the back of the
situation report I added village
situation reports to the back of the
district situation report a and village
village situation reports I attached
nameless of everyone in the village
reported to be pro-government
or pro-communist then I trained a 25 man
officer grade police team in the
techniques of interrogation and
interviewing now the process they were
to follow when they wanted two villages
each police officer was to take one
individual cloth by himself out of
hearing ranges of anyone else and
interrogate or interview that person
about the nature of kindness activities
what was going on in the village now I
kind of realized the human rights
ramifications now but at the time I felt
extremely proud because we weren't we
weren't torturing anybody that's what of
course it was a tremendous amount of
psychological torture that I wasn't you
know I wasn't sensitive to but there was
no physical torture that I knew of and
there was no we weren't killing anybody
so much a part of so many other
counterinsurgency operations so I was
kind of proud at how you know how
humane my effort was and in the first
village whether what the team was to do
going and interrogate everybody then
compare the information and see whether
discrepancies and then go back and we
interrogate them together who gets you
know down to the down to the truth and
one of the villages we went into the
first abilities we went first one of the
first ones we went into a man said okay
you got me I'm a member of the farmers
liberation Association of the kindness
Party of Thailand and we said oh well
that's very nice what in the hell is it
we'd never heard of it so he explained
and again I'm compressing it for you for
me the purpose of time said that about a
year ago some Tai Chi - who've been
trained in wat ban in North Vietnam so
they're obviously using the same
techniques that I've been using to
Vietnam Vietnamese Revolution came into
the village and they explained the
nature of the society to us that eighty
percent of the of the population were
peasants and living in the villages and
were poor in their inversely landless
that the United States were supporting
the elite the tiny at least several
percent elite of the country or I
shouldn't call him elite the rich in the
military leaders and that the United
States was sort of the controller of the
Thai government an ER offer was here's
what we we offer you if you the 80% of
the poor will join together with us we
will then overturn will kick out this
American back government and we will
give you will read avoid the land each
person will be Givens online so they
were appealing to the very strong
emotions of nationalism in social
equality
so this man said I agreed I signed the
pledge the farmers liberation
Association and I have donated willingly
donated money
I've given food my son has joined the
guerrilla movement and he's pledged his
life to the Communist victory and there
are two other I'm part of a three-man
cell there's two other members of our
collaboration cell in Thailand I mean in
my village or my two neighbors here are
also remember this cell and he gave us
their aliases and their operational
histories with the kindness movement so
then we went from from person to person
cell to cell village to village district
to district and we found the same thing
everywhere I wrote about for I wrote for
district survey reports and they went
back to the State Department Bureau of
intelligence the director of
intelligence the CIA director of
intelligence to the Thai
counterinsurgency authorities to the
station and we got prayed got that
praise from everybody there saying this
is the best information we've ever had
the DDI the director of intelligence
came back and said this is the first
time we've ever understood that the
Communists were doing in the rural areas
the governor of the province that the
same thing I've been a native of the
province for all of my life and it's the
first time I've known what the kindness
to doing my province gosh the chief of
station then called me into the Ralph's
he congratulated me it congratulated me
many times but he congratulated me again
and said your two-year tour is almost up
we normal tour is two years said we once
would expand this program outward to the
entire country has been as was the
original plan will you agree now to come
back for another two-year tour to sign
up for another two-year tour and to me
it was like a prayer being answered it
really was we were destroying the hated
comest move
we're doing it without all the torture
and killing that so much attendant those
sort of programs were doing it virtually
no expense because the ties were so
happy with the program they were paying
the salaries of everybody that was a
very unique situation in agency Lea's
and operations and I was personally very
ambitious I said of course I'll come
back it is like a prayer being answered
it's just what I wanted to do so I went
back to the province and a couple of
weeks later I was called back to this at
the station and the chief of station
said I've got a dispatch here from
headquarters and they say your tour is
almost up how soon can you get out of
here I was in total confusion and I
don't want to leave I want to go ahead
with this program I want to stay with
this program looked at tremendous
results we've had I pulled out the
rating sheets from the DDI from the
State Department from the governor and
all look I want to continue this program
we're destroying move in all of these
arguments he said well headquarters once
you want you back there's and there's
nothing I can do how someone can get out
of there well in my confused state I
really was totally confused I couldn't
understand it at all in my confused
state I started thinking I said well I
got another team in a field they'll be
out there for another six weeks it'll
take me about six weeks to write the
final reports once they come in and take
me a couple of weeks to wind up with my
personal affairs so I can get out of
here in about three months he said
that's all right
I'm going to shut down the program I
want you out of here right away
I couldn't understand that I just could
not understand it it took me years to
understand that that as I said I'm not
very Swift but here's here's what it was
the we were finding that there was a
popular based movement in Thailand
becomes part of a popular base movements
now if if the agency allowed the CIA to
tell the truth about the nature of the
kindness movement in Thailand
then they would have had to tell the
truth about the chemists movement in
Vietnam they ever told the truth about
the chemist move in Vietnam there would
have been only one policy option that
would be pull out and admit we were the
invaders and that the chemist had the
loyalty and the the intense loyalty of
of the people that would have been the
only solution like - as I said it took
me many years to understand this well I
got back to headquarters and I tried to
call attention to all that we'd achieve
I wanted to start you know the debride
to start to the district surveys out in
Thailand and I began to see how this had
ramifications for Vietnam well I went
back to the Thai desk I began looking in
intelligence coming in from Thailand and
it said there are 2,500 kindness in the
entire country of Thailand there are all
gorillas they live up in the mountainous
areas and they rate down into the
villages and terrorize the people to
give them money and food in they kidnap
young men to take them back up to join
their guerrilla movement now I had
disproven that Mis proven that or
whatever you want to say 2500 cutting
that one province alone it's well I
fought that battle in total confusion so
I was still over loyal agency officer
all right but at this time tetanus
occurred in Vietnam Tet was when you
know the general Westmoreland was
telling us there's light at the end of
the tunnel we will be out of here in a
year and all of a sudden the whole
countryside rose up and occupied every
town a major city then it was even
fighting in the American Embassy in
Saigon
so I said gosh Vietnam needs me I have
to go out there and save Vietnam for
democracy they say I'm not too Swift it
takes a while no further for the message
to sink in well I thought the agency had
knocked at a very wise policy at this
particular time cause after Ted
they had very heavy manpower
requirements for Vietnam and they were
drafting people from the European
division from the Western Hemisphere
division nobody wanted to go to Vietnam
and they had a draft people but I did
think that they adopted a wise policy
because for anyone dumb enough to
volunteer they gave you an immediate and
mandatory psychiatric assessment well I
talked to the doctor and he didn't tell
me if I passed or failed but he sent me
to Vietnam
I know his evaluation is in that action
somewhere but I don't examine it before
I left Vietnam I started looking into
agencies intelligence about the earth
Nam that it was been reported over the
years jumping out of airplanes and
parachuting it said in 1959 in South
Vietnam there are 2,000 communists there
are all guerrillas they live in the
jungle areas they raid in the villages
and forced to people to give them money
food and they kidnap young men and take
them out and force them to be join them
in the movement well in the face of
massive and I mean massive cia-backed
counter insurgency programs in the face
of massive bombing and napalm II by the
US military one would think that that
2,000 people by by early 68 would have
you know tended to have been suppressed
a little bit
deleted are negated a little bit well in
1958 they were reporting their five
thousand fifteen five hundred thousand
thymus gorillas in South Vietnam they
they are all gorillas they have no
proper support in the villages and they
terrorize the people to cooperate with
them well how did this two thousand get
these other four hundred ninety-eight
thousand these two thousand terrorize
these other people to cooperate with
them there seemed to be a little bit of
a you know non logic to this whole thing
so I got a couple of academic studies
Dugger Spice Vietcong and Michael
Charles County Vietcong comest
infrastructure in South Vietnam and I
looked at these books and I said here's
how they here's how the Congress go
about building a revolutionary movement
in the villages for a revolutionary
movement they go into the villages they
promise to eject the foreigners who
control the country when they very
effectively had ejected the French
earlier and they confiscate the land of
the absentee landlords landlords very
conscientiously divided the land up and
give it to the people they recruit the
people on the basis of nationalism and
social equality and they form farmers
liberation associations women's
liberation Association youth liberation
associations and they go from village to
village and when they have enough
collegiate organized in a contiguous
area it's able to call a base area in
the organized base area of base area and
face area now they're getting ready for
the guerrilla warfare stage and it began
to refine the organization and upgraded
in the form of militia who are upgraded
to local forces or to guerillas local
forces main forces to Regular Force
units and the party expands and they
take over control of the government in
the villages and they own the entire the
loyalty complete dedication loyalty of
the entire people in the villages
well I went back to the agency's
intelligence and it didn't mention a
single number of a liberation
Association not a single member now the
National Liberation Front tried to help
us out on this the Communist side
it announced that it had in the various
villages six million members in the
various liberation associations two
million farmers a million point to
women's about a million are used in
various other numbers in a variety of
other liberation associations Nieto is
not mentioned of a single one in any
agency intelligence report I don't think
you can find one in there
even today this was a little bit
puzzling when I begin to realize later I
realized why you couldn't admit to this
six million because the counter
insurgent insurgency theory prevalent at
the time prevalent again today in the
counterinsurgency schools is that you
need 10 counter insurgents for every
insurgent well if you admitted you had
six and a half million insurgents you
know you have to ship every able-bodied
American man woman and child over there
to fight distance counter insurgent so
we just ignored this reality and talked
only about the guerrillas well I so I
took my books in my knowledge and I went
out I was gonna say Vietnam for
democracy and I went out you know I was
gonna change all of this I was gonna
change the American government
perception of the war in Vietnam not
realizing the nature of the enemy I was
facing and of course the enemy he is US
and I get out there and I started
writing and memos to the chief of
station and button holding my superiors
and my peers and I virtually stood on
downtown Saigon at high noon shouting at
the top of my lungs how in the hell are
we gonna win this thing if we don't
admit the nature of the enemy were
facing we cannot win if we ignore the
existence of this mass based dedicated
popular movement so I fought that battle
for about six months then I began to
realize that began to realize the nature
of the problem I thought well the only
thing that's happening here Ralph is
you're getting you're running up against
this brick wall and you're getting soft
headed but you're not making any indent
in the in this effort at this particular
point you know at this time Vietnam
we were dropping napalm on villages and
bombing villages and all and I began to
look at the pictures of these little
children being burned by napalm and this
causes you know a reassessment of your
evaluations well what did that beautiful
child done to the United States that
allowed us to us incinerate it what had
it done and of course when you get in
this mode it's all over
well I want to get out excuse me guys I
have a little problem with that I wanted
to get out of the agency and I had been
in the agency about 19 years ago
yeah about 19 years so I thought well
what I'll do I have four children two
girls and expensive colleges what I'll
do is I'll write a resume and get it
send them out and I'll get another job
because I wanted to keep food on the
table and you know be able to pay the
rent but I had one little problem I
worked in the corporate side of the
agency and I couldn't admit to agency
employment so I had a little my resume
was a little skimpy who said
I played you know four years of
undefeated football notre dame grand [ __ ]
laude and Business Administration some
19 years later I think I'd like to go to
work what do you got for me
you can anticipate my responses well at
that particular claim the CIA again was
adopting or what I thought was a wise
policy they were saying that because of
the nature of the duties of operational
officers we frequently suffered from a
motivational fatigue so that we would
qualify we could qualify for early
retirement if you had 20 years in at
least five years overseas so I I said
well tell them stay in for the dexstar
year protests from within and then the
and u-20 here you can get out if I
wasn't to realize that I was gonna chase
those those those requirements be kept
changing as I got near home they seemed
to slip away from me for another six
years so I stayed in and I protested
well what is in Vietnam as I worked with
the head of the big in my special police
and we began rolling up calmness net
after calmness net in the upper echelons
of Q government to is Foreign Affair
admit and I have to admit I had become
at this point a very good intelligence
officer I knew how to work with
information and based somewhat on my
efforts we rolled up president whose
Foreign Affairs adviser the National
Catholic adviser his best friend and
about 38 others who members of the upper
echelons of government and business and
military in Vietnam and we roll them up
and they're all common spies and then we
after the interrogations of them we roll
up other groups one analyst sitting back
in Washington was excuse me and Counting
the number of time your spies and all of
the government we hadn't identified them
all but there were evidence that they
existed and he came up with a list of
approximately 30,000 communist spies in
the to government now here's a wartime
situation in a tiny little country and
there were 30,000 communist spies and
the government you don't have much of a
government when you're you know the
penetrated on the other hand the CIA US
military the Thai the Vietnamese
intelligence in police and military had
hundreds of thousands of people out
trying to get penetrations into the
kindness movement and I don't think
there was one penetration at any level
any significant level within the
kindness movement now it was a
life-threatening situation to be a spy
for the kindest and it was a cush
profitable situation to be a spy for the
government yet thirty thousand people
voted to put their life on the line this
began the show to demonstrate to where
the loyalties of the people really lie
well I left Vietnam completely
disillusioned in another tour in
Thailand and by this time I protested
really escalated I'd gone to the DTO
grievance officers to the inspector
general to the comptroller general
executive director who at that time was
William Colby with my protests and
because of my protests I was assigned to
the agency Siberia they signed me to the
international communism branch they gave
me a desk in a place to sit and nothing
to do and let it be known that I was at
the center you know around the bend a
little bit and people not to have
anything to do with me dancing what what
in the world can I do you know I don't
have a jet I don't have a real job I
just want to sit here until I can get
those those those years in so I decided
to do a study on Asian Communist
revolutionary procedures I was sitting
in international crime ISM branch it was
a good place to work from so I I began
to compile a study and not had to use
try to be completely devious about this
because every time I made my intentions
known somebody would stop it so I had to
be very very devious and I went about
doing this study and to compile this
study in addition to reading all the
counter in certain theories that of the
u.s. I began to read the works of Mao
Zedong Ho Chi Minh leads one fall
Valencia trunk in Olympia all the
various Chinese and Vietnamese authors
and authorities on revolution not much
to my surprise everything I have been
trying to tell the CIA but the moment in
Vietnam was outlined very graphically in
the writings of of these authors Mao
Zedong had been particularly helpful
just about the time of my birth he had
written his first essay on the necessity
to organize the villagers in the
villages for developing a revolutionary
organization now you would think from
that time until the end of the Vietnam
War to even today that somebody would
have gotten onto this you know people in
the campuses were reading miles he hung
all over the place you think the agency
might want to peek in there you know
some of those writings maybe they did
maybe they didn't understand it of
course they did understand it maybe they
didn't have the guts to stand up and say
hey what's going on here
so I wrote the study and I sent it up
into the void and didn't of course I
didn't hear anything back from it and
then in early 1977 there on the bulletin
board when I returned from Christmas
vacation was the glorious news for those
operations officers who have 25 years in
and minimum of five years overseas you
can retire oh I can't tell you how
elated I was I shouted hallelujah and
when I my feet finally came back to
earth I rushed and called my wife and
explained as it darling you can't
believe it now I can retire and spend
all my time with you at home what that'd
be great and I'm here it had nothing to
do with it but she decided it was time
to go to work
well that's that's pretty much my my
career in the agency gonna back up now
and I want to take a few incidences
about Vietnam in 1954 the French had
been defeated in dimmed info and the
country was divided after the Geneva
conference is a sixteenth parallel for
three hundred days those women from the
north' one to go south could go south
and vice versa and in that in that three
hundred day period the CIA was ordered
by the National Security Council that's
a very tiny group of advisors to sit
right under the presidency over the CIA
the secretary of state secretary of
defense in the director CIA ordered the
CIA to create a non climate alternative
government to Ho Chi Minh now President
Eisenhower writing later in his memoirs
said that if ever the election or there
was an election call for about the
Geneva Conference per to you in two
years a mandatory election was to be
held and whoever won the country would
be united under that leader what
President Eisenhower said if ever that
election had been held 80% of the
Vietnamese were devoted for Ho Chi Minh
well the CIA was ordered for two basic
reasons to create a non chemist
alternative government in Vietnam one we
wanted the the markets the minerals the
manpower of Vietnam in America's
economic sphere of influence and two if
the Domino fell in South Vietnam Nana
would fall all the way you know to
throughout Europe you know is Petra
Buchanan is saying now where we there'll
be jets flying over Sandhya's bear
bombers flying over San Diego if we
don't support the Contras the same old
theories so this the AC was ordered to
create a non-count alternative
government now what do we do how do we
go about this well we went up to the
Maryknoll seminaries in new york now I
have to admit the Maryknolls at that
time are quite glittering but now
Patrick Buchanan the White House public
a race instructor
calls them the Marxist Mariel Maryknolls
and the liberated nuns
thing I've read they've really turned
around
as I have turned around but up there in
in the marinol seminars in New York no
Danielle was living and we wanted to
know the indium said mr. diem how would
you like to be premier of South Vietnam
he was a Catholic and he allowed us how
you know that wouldn't wouldn't be a bad
idea
so we sent him off to Saigon and the our
guys met him there so there you go sit
in the palace there's nobody there to
meet him I got the plane Here I am South
Vietnam I'm your premier and just the
CIA guy there to meet them so now if
you'll go to your palace and sit still
and I'm you know I'm simplifying a bit
but not too much if you go settle your
palace we'll go about creating a
government for you now the plan was in
North Vietnam there was a good a few
provinces there a group of Vietnamese
who had joined the Catholic Church and
they had fought with the Viet Minh
against the French against a student
they fought with the French against the
Viet Minh so the plan was to get these
Vietnamese to move to the south and then
they would in cadre in an army in a
government and in the military for DIMM
so that was the plan well how do you go
about getting these people are so
attached to land and through their
ancestors to move to the south well
here's what the agency's dirty tricks
come in and they went up to the north
and he distributed leaflets around those
areas showing the circumcircle firts of
destruction should the United States
decide to use nuclear weapons in Vietnam
they forged documents in the name of the
Communist Party of Vietnam I believe at
that time is called a loud gong party
explaining the conditions that the North
Vietnamese Catholics would be required
to live under once the 300 a truce
period expired
they offered those and I'm just just
hitting it very lightly there are many
many things went on but I'm just hitting
the the basic things they offered those
who would go agree to go to the South
money land jobs in transportation south
on it's cat airline
Dulli that the u.s. dr. tom dooley
you're working with the US Navy out of -
was doing the same thing so all of these
efforts created a flood of approximately
800,000 Vietnamese moving from the north
to the south now I think here's the
critical point because here's what's
happening to us today the level of our
media coverage was here are the disease
mutilated tortured starving bodies of
the Vietnamese voting with their feet
and escaping from the godless cruelties
of communism steam warnings giggling the
godless coolies of communism they were
escaping from the CIA covert operations
but I think that sort of put in concrete
forever the American perception not only
the Congress movement in Vietnam but
communism generally so they came to the
south and the CIA formed a police a
palace guard the US military training
the Army Navy Air Force for diem and in
the government now we have a nine
chemists alternative government in
Saigon there's one problem however the
French still had their guy there about
day and we had our guy damn though the
agency in the National Security Council
did get rid of the French and take over
this thing the French have lost their
will take over this battle on your own
would take over this on our own so how
do you do that well you hold an election
obviously if the ACC has done anything
around the world over the years it's
rigged elections and they're really
masters at this so we held a pleb asset
between Bao Dai and him and Dan one who
was rather popular he got 98 points some
percent of the vote
it had more more votes newer registered
voters now we had a non feminist
alternative government of Saigon then
them of course went about imposing his
government over the rural areas in a
massively resisted the imposition of
this government member Eisenhower had
said if a legitimate election was held
80% would have been voted would have
voted for no Jimenez but we were told
98% were four four four four dimm who
just such stood reality this was in his
propaganda operations aimed at the
American people who would either just
stood reality on it's him but at this
particular point we have to get the
agency credit they wrote a National
Intelligence Estimate
about the situation in South Vietnam now
they're going to tell you the truth this
is the document that's going to go to
the policy makers are going to have to
implement policy further policies about
Vietnam and here's what the National
Intelligence Estimate says and it's
available in the Pentagon Papers no diem
is winning the loyalty of the South
Vietnamese and he's done it virtually
all in his own without any outside
support here are the two roles of the
agency and sharp delineation its
intelligence role was completely
bastardized by its policy role of
creating a nine chemist alternative
government in Vietnam well it's
intelligence from that point forward in
its propaganda aimed at the American
people was nothing more than a creation
of illusion that had absolutely nothing
to do with the reality of the situation
well Tim obviously was not a viable
leader and in cooperation with the CIA
in 1963 he was removed and assassinated
in 1965 this is last incident I'll talk
about the Vietnam it was decided that we
there was only one way to save Vietnam
for democracy and that was to introduce
American troops now we had been told all
along that the war in Vietnam was an
invasion of the legitimate government in
South Vietnam by the North Vietnamese
when he opposite of course was true I
mean was more trouble there was only one
problem with the story
there were no North Vietnamese in South
Vietnam there were no communist weapons
in South Vietnam
so how do you have an invasion when
there's no invasion simple how many
agencies responsible for black
operations according to the the Senate
report an agency and according to the
House report any agency if it were an
army based on all the weapons it has in
its various require Arsenal's around the
world it would be one of the strongest
armies in the world so the CIA loaded up
with Vietnamese junk with chemists
weapons ammunitions demolitions and
forged a few documents put him on the
jump floated up against the coast of
South Vietnam shot it up to make it look
like a firefight had occurred and
brought in the international media in
international patrol commission said
here's evidence of the invasion here's
this here's the Communist documents
here's disc and these communist weapons
here's the Communist documents all this
sort of stuff so now we're in good shape
almost immediately the US government
wrote a white paper and the white paper
is an official policy statement here's
how we perceive a situation here's we're
gonna do about it of course we have one
in 81 and salvadora nothing we call that
one pretty similar ever a situation the
title of the white paper was an invasion
from the north the account of north
vietnam attempts to conquer South
Vietnam almost all of the evidence of
the white paper were photographs of the
the junk the documents the weapons that
had been planted on it by the CIA a week
or so later we began Operation Rolling
Thunder the sustained bombing of North
Vietnam a week or so after that we
introduced to American battalion landing
teams into South Vietnam and very
shortly thereafter we were in active
combat operations in South Vietnam let
me read you just a couple of little
statistics on the Vietnam War this was
all brought to us by this little CIA
covert operation
dead two million two hundred twenty one
thousand indo-chinese 58,000 Americans
destruction fifteen million five hundred
thousand tons of firepower were used by
US forces which equals six hundred
Hiroshima type atom bombs it's
interesting to note that it was fifteen
million five hundred tons that u.s. used
only six million tons of firepower in
World War two now this is the firepower
expending in Vietnam itself firepower
expended by US and allies in Indochina
exceeds total firepower used by humanity
in all wars the cost in the United
States was something like it's they
don't have a positive figure somewhere
between 350 to 900 billion dollars at
the upper levels of the estimate is
almost half our national debt this is a
statistic printed in the International
excuse me Indochina newsletter of
December November 82 now this is one CIA
covert operation and it's interesting to
note that the Senate report said that
the agency conducted nine and over
14-year period and 900 major covert
operations and several thousand minor
covert operations domestic operations
the CIA by its Charter is explicitly
prohibited from being involved in
domestic covert operations of course
President Reagan has the kid changed all
that within an executive order but until
that time it had been explicitly
prohibited listed absolutely nothing to
stop the agency because it operates in
secrecy it's just one of but what about
violating the law on it almost
immediately began opening mail several
million pieces of ten million pieces of
mail that looked at and open some of
these in photographed in the next names
and it's indexed in an academia it had
approximately 5,000 administrators and
that Commission's who had three basic
functions for the CIA
one they were spotting American students
where the proper ideological outlook
would make good CIA case officers they
were spotting foreign students who had
the same ideological outlook who'd make
good
when when they went back to their porn
you know to the native countries and
we're writing some of the intellectual
tomes that had the proper ideological
slant on it in the medium and I think
this is a sort of a critical area they
had in the u.s. approximately 350
American reporters television newsmen
executives of media who were working in
some capacity for the CIA they were
doing basically three things
planting information in the media that
we wanted planted I shouldn't use the
term we suppressing information that the
agency didn't want to get out in and
exchanging information
now this 350 man media group within the
United States was part of a larger world
Way group that the agency called a
Mighty Wurlitzer and it had media
representatives in virtually every
country of the world many many in some
of the countries and they called it a
Mighty Wurlitzer because it was an organ
on which they could play any propaganda
tune they wanted anywhere in the world
at any time in the world and this was a
constant process maybe they'd plant an
article in to pick it up in the air mail
it to 200 other news institutions they
keep it picked up and replayed they sent
out editorial guidance constantly and
this just goes on over and over and over
again it's you know it's all propaganda
one of the conclusions of the Senate
report was that a major responsibility
of the CIA was the creation of an
international anti communist ideology
why did it want to create an
international anti counter study ology
because then anytime you want to
overturn our government you can you can
shout communists then you shoot down the
straw men you know you can't say we're
fighting the poor people of that country
anyone who fights our dictatorship is a
communist obviously so that you know
that that goes to lend
cutting credence to the story well let
me give you one just one example how
this propaganda mechanism worked because
I it demonstrates what goes on all along
and I'm using john stockwell example
here yeah he may have talked about it he
was task force chief or the Ingold or
task force and it was just we were going
to overturn the Angolan government you
know saying they were doing now except
now we're doing it with we're getting in
bed with the South Africans insane
absolutely insane what are the blacks in
this country gonna think here's the
here's the United States joining with
the apartheid government of South Africa
in overturning a black government of
Angola I just can't understand this I
just it just blows my mind
well John said here's what we did in
Angola the Cubans were holding the
government together there so we decided
to call attention to their presence
there at the same time to try to
discredit that presence well fortunate
for us some Angolan troops went into an
isolated village and rapes the main
golden women so the women got together
organized themselves took the weapons
from the men marched them off to jail
over extended period of time a trial was
held in the men were taken out I believe
they're executed with their own weapons
and this story was you know covered in
the international and American media
were period a month only one problem
with this story none of it ever happened
it was just the American side war
officers sitting there in his office
writing and I think it was passing to
the Reuters representative and then they
got distributed around the world none of
it ever happened next where thing goes
on constantly just goes on over and over
again other domestic operations drug
testing the CIA used 80 institutions in
185 individuals doctors in technicians
in testing illegal drugs on unwitting
and on would
setting Americans at least two people
committed suicide because of these tests
we know of one of the more pernicious of
all of these activities are the
established in New York and San
Francisco safe houses where the they
hire they installed one-way mirrors in
the hire prostitutes to go out and bring
people back John's back and he would
drop LSD in their drinks Ellis and and
watched in a film the ensuing action
watching and film the ensuing action the
agency was involved in course student
groups youth groups labor groups
religious groups in the foundations the
financial foundations they virtually own
the financial foundations who then
sponsor academic research in the book
publishing field agency published
something 1250 books 250 in the English
language and you can almost bet it's
almost a sure bet than ever every time
you read a book by a defector from
either crime is China or the Soviet
Union he came to this country and was in
a matter of you a year or so he had a
book on the you know bestseller list you
can just bet that the ages the book is
either been living by the CIA or then
you know completely facilitated by the
CIA it's been alleged that our kitty
Shevchenko's book that more recent one
breaking with moscow you know the guy
was at the UN soviet mission in un who
came out and hit this book breaking with
moscow is on the cover of time he was in
sixty minutes and all this sort of stuff
it was noted that back in 1980 the CIA
was calling around to publishers to see
who would like to sponsor this book and
it's you ought to read the book that's
got all those nice wool and propaganda
themes in there he happens to be talking
to brazen effort Khrushchev his critical
moments you know but it's it's really
sexy reading these recently book
publishing in Harvard there were two
Harvard professors have been four
professors I think identified who've
been writing books now these are the
four that have been we've uncovered and
that means you know that's as the old
saying goes that's the tip of the
iceberg here's something out of
Washington Post say no Huntington who is
the head of the
pacification program in Vietnam one time
head of Harvard's Center for
international affairs examined and
recommended the minds of addictive
dictators in research secretly funded by
the CIA
the two professors of Harvard professors
in four months were involved in
controversy over CIA funding professor
Huntington's article in a winter edition
of the Harvard quarterly International
Security was titled dead dictators and
rioting mobs and he said one of his
conclusions in the one of the reasons
for the study American interests would
best be served if long-standing
dictators die in bed soon
of course American interests being what
they are that doesn't mean we're gonna
have democracy following that but it's
kind of interesting to relate this to
recent events in in the Philippines and
baby doc and all that you know it's my
impression that nothing's changed there
you just put a new face on a very bad
situation these are pretty much domestic
operations I like to talk about Central
American and I'll come to my conclusions
El Salvador Grenada and Nicaragua El
Salvador and anyone we want to change
our policy because Carter cut off aid to
the El Salvadoran government because of
human rights violations I mean before
you can reinitiate aid you have to
convince the american people of the
nature of the goals that the legitimacy
of your goal humanity of your goals so
we're gonna write a white paper to
publicize the american people before you
write the white paper you got to get
your evidence in a row and lo and behold
a refrigerator truck was driven across
Honduras and was then apprehended the El
Salvadoran border they roll back the
roof and what did they find in their
communist weapons it's an almost an
invariable rule that you're always going
to find communists weapons when you're
gonna overturn or change your policy
towards the government it's it's almost
automatic I haven't seen the exception
in the Philippines you know what the
rule what it was saying was because
there is no absolutely no evidence that
the Communists the USSR is supplying
weapons to the chemistry of the
Philippines it's quite obvious that
there's a massive weapons supply supply
because they're being so careful and we
can't find any evidence
now g-got piece of evidence 1 now piece
of evidence to chef a camel the lead of
the commies party of el salvador went on
a trip he traveled all of our perceived
enemies PLO Qaddafi in the North Korea
USSR East Germany Cuba and in each and
every place along the route he kept
Nasdaq kept a very meticulous diary and
he noted in those diary the his
conversations with the leaders of these
countries and how they had promised him
military equipment they were all gonna
play a given military equipment the head
of the PLO was going to give him some
airplanes
yeah damn the air feels it in any pilots
but he's gonna give me airplanes well
the State Department guy was wandering
around in El Salvador one day and he
went into a police station he saw his
box of documents namely look through
them he said oh geez economy stockings
can I have him
no please guy said oh sure take him away
Guerra try to get died from acero police
station so he going back to the State
Department he comes across this document
this diarrhea oh my god what have I got
here
you know what more do we need and this
was broadcast to the world well later on
when we were able to get photocopies of
the documents a few very impolite people
one myself being one of them noted that
wasn't a rather strange that this diary
this one man as he travelled around the
world that his handwriting changed three
times was maintained at three distinct
handwriting styles and he missed named
people and elements with his own
government an obvious forgery the
agency's not used to having it's you
know it's misinformation apps revealed
so he got D sodas two piece of evidence
straight you know all you need is one
more piece of evidence
ambassador Robert White was sitting in
his in his embassy in San Salvador and
somebody comes running in and said oh my
god
those saboteurs being invaded on the
beach down here so he gets in his
vehicle and he runs down to the beach
and there indeed or the spent shell
casings and grenades laid
spoon along the beach running off into
the jungle kind of like a trail of
jellybeans not in an entirely
inappropriate simile so he rushes back
to the embassy and said my god you know
you know Nicaragua I mean if else I
would have been invaded in the only
country without adjoining land border
nearby is Nicaragua obviously invasion
came from the Quran only later he left
he admitted that he had been duped there
than an invasion but now we got our we
got our story all lined up and we're at
a white paper you know the the diary the
weapons shipment and the invasion and we
send fifty million dollars down there
and fifty five military advisers and the
whole you know the whole situations
we're supplying the napalm the Bombers
and all this sort of thing oh the debate
goes on only one problem we want to
support democracy you know get a cell a
program the American people you can't
sell military dictatorships the American
people well how do you support democracy
we have an election of course so de
Busan and Duarte had run off and the
Busan had worked with us and he learned
a lot of our tricks and it came out of a
virtual push so Kasey was called on the
carpet he said for Christ's sake Casey
would do it again and this time will you
do it right so we held another election
and lo and behold Duarte won and it was
that that flaming liberal Jesse Helms he
said the agency did everything in that
second election in El Salvador
except stuff the ballot boxes because he
was upset because his guide to Busan
didn't win but there's two you know then
they pretty much managed the elections
all right now we're supporting democracy
in El Salvador then we got our policy
changes we're get our military equipment
down there and everything Grenada
yeah and I watch this one you know I
said I admired this one quite a sick
feeling in my stomach but I said oh my
god they're really doing a tremendous
job on this remember some Marines have
been killed in Lebanon about a week or
ten days before 279 in the bombing in
lemon are there real malaise and the
American people you know way to help can
what do we always have to take away can
we strike there we're always on the
receiving Inlet can we do something so
we were we ready ready in naval Armada
and we sent it off towards the
Mediterranean well at that time Maurice
Bishop was killed by the military
leadership in in Grenada and I really
felt badly because I thought Maurice was
a I had talked to him when his on
Grenada and I really felt he was a fine
charismatic leader now normally this is
a sort of situation that the CIA
generates where leaders get killed by
the military but I have absolutely no
evidence that this was the case here I
suspect that I have no evidence so the
in this period the Armada was directed
to go off to Canada and lo and behold
our president won and we and of course
we landed in all of this and our
president went on television and he told
us now you have to realize the corn ADA
is an island nation of 110,000 people
it's one of the poorest nation in the
world its major export is nutmeg and you
know people are uneducated they have no
communications at all no roads no just
just virtually nothing but our president
went on television and he warned us said
we got there just in time the story was
so ludicrous it was almost sublime we
found six weapons six warehouses loaded
to the rafters with communist weapons
the inevitable rule is its
therawtarian.com use weapons
Grenada was going to sponsor revolution
throughout all of Central America up
into Mexico possibly up in our own
borders you know they're lining the
tanks up along the Mexican border you
know in afraid of this you know invading
force from Grenada well well as you
recall then the media was kept out of
the out of the operation for 48 hours
this was a critical period well it took
them that long to load up the two we
were winning on a you've got
you know they went to these six
warehouses they turn out to only two
they were only partially filled with
weapons and only somewhat more kindness
to Evans there were some American
weapons there of course those weapons
according to the story had been left
behind of Vietnam how we knew that I
wasn't quite sure but I'd say we needed
at 48 hours to load those things up
well the weapons had an interesting
follow-up they went down to Washington
DC and we all went down all denied that
the Communists weapons picked up in
Grenada then later on they were when
interest died down a bit they were given
off to the port of Aberdeen in proving
grounds in Maryland then about a year
ago I read in the back of the Washington
Post I'm so glad I saw this two lions
the weapons picked up in Grenada have
been given to the CIA back to that place
from whence they came one da mad Mulder
head of the task force decided you know
he wants some souvenirs of the operation
so he scarfed up a couple dozen of these
automatic weapons he's going to give
them out to his his buddies and they
would have a real commemoration of this
glorious victory he didn't realize when
the agency started toting up you know on
his computers all the weapons that had
put there you know they were they were
gonna get upset that they didn't get
them all back and he got in some trouble
then one night on television that same
48-hour period
I watched is he is the artillery man
American artillerymen loaded up their
pieces and fired up on his mountain side
we'd see them loading up and the focus
would shift up to the mom side which see
the exploding area on the mountain in
the story that came along with it here
is a hurry the American troops wiping
out pockets of Cuban resistance now all
of a sudden this massive Grenadian
revolutionary force seemed to be nowhere
on the island and the only thing we were
fighting and in Grenada were Cubans well
unfortunately for this story there seems
to always be a catch this was exposed
during a frontline PBS program TV
program if a reporter had been on the
island when all this occurred and he was
smart enough not to make his presence
known so that was one of the
days he hadn't wandered up we take a
bottle of wine and a sandwich and he
went up in the side of the mountain he
was up there all by himself and scenario
his wine and then eating a sandwich and
watching the helicopters land in the
LSTs wrong all this frantic activity
going on and he was up there by himself
and finally he'd him wandered on down he
got down a little wild lady or he walked
over to the the artilleryman or firing
up the mountain where he had just been
so what are you doing we're wiping out
pockets of Cuban resistance obviously
nobody up there but the now that degrade
the movie actor was the producer of the
evening news then we saw on television
you would pan on the walls of Grenada
and the houses of Grenada you could see
signs thank God for the Americans from
saving us from this terrible oppression
and all these sort of things
and I could just see in my mind's eye
get dawn's early light the CIA case
officer out there you know thank God for
the story goes on and on but those are
the some of the basics Nicaragua and
this is a sad tale of course because I
think something like 5000 Nicaraguans
have been killed by the Contras and
that's equivalent on our terms of
something like several million but we
had to when we want to change our policy
we want to sponsor the conscience with
everyone overthrow the government of the
Sandinistas we have to convince the
American people of the legitimacy and
humanity of our militarism of our goals
so President Reagan won on television
and I think you all know the story if
you listen to David McMichael we are
sponsoring the Contras to halt the flood
of communist weapons that are coming
from Nicaragua to the El Salvadoran
leftist where of course we had democracy
down in El Salvador after a while David
who is responsible for monitoring all
this information all the land sea and
air and technical intelligence you know
sensors electronic sensors and all of
this probably the most watched border
area in the world
said you couldn't drop a gum wrapper end
up in the bay down there without it
being picked up by a CIA
collection effort he was monitoring all
of this any finally left and discussed
he said there hasn't been a flood of
weapons in the early 81 there were a
couple of little weapon shipments since
that time we have not uncovered a single
weapon yet our president went on
television in 80 late 81 82 and 83 and
was telling us that there are a flood of
weapons and that's why we're sponsoring
the Contras because we want to force the
Nicaraguans to stop supporting
revolution in the neighboring countries
of course you had the mining of the
harbors built the head of the Senate
Intelligence Committee Barry Goldwater
he called him bill Casey he wrote a very
scatological letter would even what the
hell is I won't quote him in exactly
what the hell is the matter with you
guys this is an act of war and you were
down here before the Senate Intelligence
Committee they have to brief them on
their covert operation and you didn't
tell us anything about this mining
operation what's matter with you guys
and I think this brings up another point
with just congressional oversight and I
think it can be summed up in one quote
by Norman that I've talked to Norman
individually but he was quoted in the
Washington Post he said the serving on
the House Intelligence Committee and
being briefed by the CIA is like being
the proverbial mushroom you're kept in
the dark and you're fed manure
it's congressional oversight and of
course we had two pilots two American
pilots shot down on bombing runs over
Nicaragua and it was said that they had
absolutely no a relationship to the CIA
and I think one I know one I think both
of them had been former members of the
hello Bama National Guard it's
interesting to note that in Cuban the
Bay of Pigs at Cuba for American airman
was shot down that are all from the
Alabama National Guard and it was denied
they had been members the Alabama
National Guard he was denied that any
relationship to the CIA operation there
except some twenty years later they
admitted oh yeah they had been working
for the CIA all along so these two were
you know pretty much identical histories
and it's denied in any relationship to
the CIA most recently we find out you
know David sort of shot down David
Michael shot down a president story
about supporting revolution around the
surrounding countries and then the story
came out that the m-19 girl is occupied
at the Supreme Court in Colombia and
were invaded and you know everyone was
killed the the hostages as well as the
NIA 19 guerrillas and if the story came
out that the m-19 guerrillas were armed
with weapons of course that came from
Nicaragua of course the Colombians
denied it but that didn't make any
difference in Elliott Abrams the Under
Secretary of State for an American
affairs still claims this is evidence
that you know the crowd was supporting
revolution enn won't wouldn't you know
it that a vehicle the car was loaded
with chemists weapons in demolitions in
what all it was driven across Honduras
you know an American dry-docked
aircraft carrier if you will headed in
route to El Salvador and they haven't
had a flat tire so some Honduran troops
decided to go over in a system with the
flying fish in the flat tire and they
noticed some wires hanging out and they
conducted a search and lo and behold
here all these communist weapons very
nicely wrapped in Nicaragua newspapers
the beat goes on
so now we're going to we're going to
sponsor the concert with 100 million
dollars to sponsor the Contras to force
them to stop subverting their neighbors
by these weapons shipments my
conclusions of the CIA and we can go on
and on but my conclusions the CIA does
not know nor has it ever been a Central
Intelligence Agency it's the covert
action arm the president's foreign
policy in this capacity it supports or
overthrows foreign governments
misinformation is a major part of this
covert action responsibility in you and
I and Congress are the major targets of
its misinformation operations in the CIA
goes around the world overturning
democratically elected and popular
governments and imposing in their stead
sometimes under the guise of democracy's
brutal military dictatorships torture
and murder their own people well why do
we do all this why do we go around
overturning all the ideals that we saw
since ostentatiously whole to be
truthful or what we should be honoring
life liberty justice all of these things
why did we do that and I think you can
find the answer in the economics and in
my estimation you boil it down to the
finest area the CIA is nothing more than
the action arm and Americans
transnational corporations the CIA goes
around the world overturning these
governments and then opposes these
dictatorships now let me give an example
a agribusiness say in the Philippines is
an example they will go in say we want
we will buy all of the products you can
call a beef you can grow or all the
products you can say bean you can grow
if you will grow them so the guy the
oligarchy the landowner says all right
but I only have 50,000 acres I want a
million acres so we'll send the troops
in he's aligned with Marcos we'll send
the troops in and nel drive the peasants
off their land and any who protests are
killed or if you develop a try to
develop a
Union or cooperative here you know you
have the death squads
so the are I think what is happening not
only are we destroying the life liberty
and justice abroad but we are destroying
the American farmer by these activities
because now you can produce by these
cost of labor that go for maybe a dollar
a day this this immense profits for the
transnationals now the same thing
happens in the manufacturing field where
do your clothes come from Korea and
Taiwan
we've got dictatorships inner earning
just a fraction of the amount of money
that American workers earning the
Hyundai car that's come to the United
States boqueria in the labor costs
they're about two dollars an hour versus
the American $20 an hour so what happens
American industry shuts its plants down
in the United States in a transfer ISM
overseas to Taiwan to Korea to the
agribusinesses in Central American Latin
America
their profits go up just just
exponentially the American worker the
American farmer about a third of them
are going to lose their farms this year
lose their jobs I think what you're
having now here in the United States is
sort of the central Americanization or
the marginalization of the American
worker the American farmer this process
is beginning and it's accelerating now I
don't think that we can allow the CIA to
go around the world continue to overturn
popular and Democratic leaders
governments and destroying democracy
Liberty justice religion all of the
things we also there and expect that our
freedoms and liberties can long exist
here at home thank you very much